log/2025-07-08.md, before:

---
title: Searching Similar Projects
author: "Carlo Rosso"
date: 2025-07-08
---

I'm searching for a nearly identical dataset to ours, analyzing similar 
datasets, their pre-processing, and usage to understand task differences.
The goal is to find a similar project that has no relevant task difference.

Starting from the following link that Gaetano shared with me:
[[https://github.com/fnielsen/awesome-danish]].

I found the following datasets that can relate to our problem:

- [[https://github.com/bplank/DaNplus]]
- [[https://aclanthology.org/P17-1178.pdf]]: no dataset found, maybe in the
  paper I can read about it.

# DaN+

Named Entity Recognition (NER) is the task of finding entities in text, such as
locations, organizations, and persons.

This task can be viewed as hierarchical extraction: heat pump > data on each
heat pump.

Related interesting work:
- [[https://aclanthology.org/W19-6143.pdf]]: flat NER in Danish (KU) from 2019 +
  tools comparison.
- [[https://aclanthology.org/2020.lrec-1.565.pdf]]: another flat NER in Danish
  (KU) from 2020.

- Cohen's $\kappa$? Seems like an accuracy measure.
- A model trained only in danish is lighter (thus faster) and as accurate.
- Compare the dimension of the dataset, with the one in the papers:
    - sentences
    - tokens
    - number of entities.

Commit message:

catching up with the state-of-the-art

log/2025-07-08.md, after:

---
title: Searching Similar Projects
author: "Carlo Rosso"
date: 2025-07-08
---

I'm searching for a nearly identical dataset to ours, analyzing similar 
datasets, their pre-processing, and usage to understand task differences.
The goal is to find a similar project that has no relevant task difference.

Starting from the following link that Gaetano shared with me:
[[https://github.com/fnielsen/awesome-danish]].

I found the following datasets that can relate to our problem:

- [[https://github.com/bplank/DaNplus]]
- [[https://aclanthology.org/P17-1178.pdf]]: no dataset found, maybe in the
  paper I can read about it.

# DaN+ - ITU Copehagen

Named Entity Recognition (NER) is the task of finding entities in text, such as
locations, organizations, and persons.

This task can be viewed as hierarchical extraction: heat pump > data on each
heat pump.

Related interesting work:
- [[https://aclanthology.org/W19-6143.pdf]]: flat NER in Danish (ITU) from 2019 +
  tools comparison.
- [[https://aclanthology.org/2020.lrec-1.565.pdf]]: another flat NER in Danish
  (KU) from 2020.

- Cohen's $\kappa$ is a way to measure how much the annotators were in conflict
  with each other.
- A model trained only in danish is lighter (thus faster) and as accurate.
- Compare the dimension of the dataset, with the one in the papers:
    - sentences
    - tokens
    - number of entities
    - percentage of entities per sentence
